Let's start with our good old DevOps.
How does the secede flow for Kubernetes look like?
Your developer checks in the code in a code repository such as GitHub or S code Commit.
When we talk about codes for Kubernetes, we mainly mean two things.
First, the Docker file, which defines the container image.
Second, the manifest which defines the deployment, scaling and other configuration for your application.
Once the code is checked in, a build process starts.
In this example, we are using a W.
S Code build, which builds the Docker container image and pushes the image to an image repository such
as Amazon ACR.
And then this code build deploys the manifest file into a running Kubernetes cluster.
In this case, Amazon has the step one, two and three is CI or continuous integration, and step four
is CD or continuous deployment.
But what if things go wrong?
Maybe you have a hands on guy in your team with access to life cluster and he just runs a bunch of cute
little play commands and changes the number of replicas or even the content or image.
Furthermore, maybe he deletes some of the running softwares in the cluster, such as Datadog, simply
because he does not like dogs.
How would you go back to the stable previous date for the cluster?
You have to rerun the seed part to deploy the manifests again to the running cluster, but only if someone
detects something is wrong.
If someone changed the number of replicas and the container image to a previous version or even delete
Datadog.
Your application might not fail.
Also, rerunning CD components is tedious, sometimes manual and error prone.
And if something goes wrong during the CD, it's really stressful to restart the DevOps pipeline.
Hence Gitops were born.
If you think about it, traditional secede flow.
For X, it's more of a push model where the US could build is pushing the deployment and the manifest
files to the Kubernetes cluster.
Now let's take a look at Gitops, which is more of a push plus pull model.
With Gitops, the C.I. part remains the same, so the developer checks in the code in a code repository.
The container image is built and gets pushed into a repository, but the CD or continuous deployment
part is different.
In this case, in the Kubernetes cluster, a software constantly run and checks with the repository.
Hence the term git and keeps the cluster in sync.
But what does this actually mean?
I'm pretty sure you guys and gals are still not clear.
So let's take a look at that.
Let's say the Catman is back and CD is being done by Gitops tool, for example, flux.
So the Catman went ahead and deleted the other parts and let's say also change some of the deployment
configuration.
But remember, the Gitops tool is constantly checking with deployment manifest files or helm charts
in GitHub.
So it immediately detects that the state of the cluster deviated from the desired state defined in git
and flux will immediately and automatically revert the Kubernetes cluster to the state as defined in
the manifest file or the chart file defined in the git.
So it will immediately restore the Datadog port.
It will revert back the number of replicas, the container image or any other changes that this person
has done.
The state of the cluster is defined by whatever is defined in Git.
That's why we say Git becomes the single source of truth.
It sends a lot to appropriate team with the audit trails and this team removes unnecessary access from
Catman so that only gitops can make changes.
By the way, I'm explaining this Gitops concept when something has went wrong, like this person went
and deleted some pods.
But in actual world Gitops is used for your regular software delivery and software release as well.
Because if you think about it, all you need to do is update the deployment for the new code with the
new Docker image and Gitops will grab that deployment file or the helm chart and deploy those changes.
We are going to see that in action when you go over the Real World demo.
Currently Gitops can be done by either Flux or Argo.
So in summary, Gitops periodically syncs the running cluster with the desired state defined in GitHub
or other code repositories based on Git.
It works with both vanilla manifest files such as deployment, YAML, file, HPA, etc. or it works
with helm charts as well.
This enables reduced learning curve than DevOps because the CD part is being done using Kubernetes constructs.
So the team does not need to learn the CD with traditional DevOps tool.
And it also increases security because CI and CD permissions are separated.
And also there are less number of components.
But Gitops does not mean getting rid of DevOps.
As we saw, the CI part is still being done with DevOps.
Also, Gitops only works with a running Kubernetes cluster.
The DevOps CD still needs to be used to spin up the cluster for the first time.
Once that cluster is up, Gitops can be used to create other Kubernetes clusters.
All right, folks, now let's do a real world gitops project where we get our hands dirty and understand
this in a deeper level.
All right, see you in the next lecture.